How effectively are cities implementing new transit infrastructure alongside new urban expansion? The Urban Reach app is intended to explore the implications of this question, revealing the degree to which cities are succeeding in providing both public transit and safe bike paths to areas of recent urban expansion. The app also explores the history of urban expansion in target cities and the strategies they currently have in place to address the issue.

The app itself relies on a wealth of open datasets available nationwide, including historic urban extents, land use classes derived from remote sensing, crowdsourced street networks, transit system data, and bike infrastructure polylines. These datasets were used to analyze different generations of Canadian built up areas and their relationship with transit and bike network service areas. These service areas are then combined with census data to reveal the total population affected by minimal transit or bike accessibility within areas of recent urban expansion.

Our goal in developing the app was to inform decision-makers in urban development on how well they are meeting the accessibility needs of the population in recently developed areas and enable them to make good decisions when choosing where and how to develop in new regions. For everyday users, we also hope to provide insight on their own proximity to transit and safe bike paths, to assist in making informed decisions when moving, and to provide resources and information that can be used to advocate for comprehensive mobility strategies in their own community.
