# Statement of Characteristics

The Tri-City Wellbeing Initiative combines various metrics of social urban wellbeing into one platform. Standard indicator-based initiatives struggle to deliver an interactive approach to understanding community demographics. The interactive map creates a comprehensive visualization of census tracts across the Kitchener-Waterloo-Cambridge area. Where each polygon represents a census tract, color-scaled according to its wellbeing index. Blue indicates highest score, and white indicates lowest score. The wellbeing index, is a synthesis of six key variables, provides a holistic understanding of community health. These variables include unemployment rate, median household income, poverty rate, education level, green space coverage, and public transport accessibility. It leverages these key metrics against national averages which provides a strong benchmark for urban development and social wellbeing. 

The map visualization enables pop-up windows which offer insights into individual metrics, empowering decision-makers with valuable data needed to support their communities. Moreover, users can explore tabular data showcasing the scores for each variable per census tract. The search bar provides a means for easy navigation, enabling users to delve deeper into specific communities. Beyond the map visualization, the graphical tabs near the bottom of the application provides another method to interpret the distribution of urban wellbeing in the KWC area. The first is a chart, showing the overall distribution of wellbeing scores along with their mean and median values. Users can hover over each bar in the histogram for more detail. This enables users to target specific metrics across the Kitchener-Waterloo-Cambridge area. Moreover, by adjusting filters, users can compare neighborhoods and identify areas in need of greater resources. Thus, the combination of multiple social indicators in one resource is an excellent educational resource for decision-makers, residents and businesses in the KWC area. The easy-to-understand colour-scaled map, visual graphs and ability to explore data separates this tool from other wellbeing indexes. In which the end user can control the metrics that are important to them, learning more about their own neighbourhood, and building social awareness to improve urban quality of life. 
